Note: <i>...</i> indicates italics.  Below, I want the a and the t in da/dt
to be set in italics (to indicate that they are variables).



A Newton's-Method Formulation of the Reconnaissance-Satellite
Maneuver-Duration Problem

Reconnaissance satellites often have large, light weight, relatively
flexible structures, and limited maneuvering energy.  They are therefore
subject to relatively modest dynamic limits--maximum angular velocities,
accelerations, and <i>jerks</i> (d<i>a</i>/d<i>t</i>).  Maneuvering a satellite
to point its sensors at a sequence of targets cannot be modeled accurately
without accounting for these limits.  The duration of such a maneuver is not
readily computable in closed form, because the vehicle's travel affects the
necessary rotation.  Assuming a planar rotation maneuver enables
constructing an iterative algorithm to resolve these coupled quantities. 
Combining vector calculus and simple physics in a Newton's method
formulation, this algorithm is implemented in 100 lines of C++, and can
compute 80,000 maneuver-times per second on current PCs.  Millions of such
computations are required when analyzing and generating collection
schedules.

The <i>slew model</i> described is embedded in SAIC's Integrated
Intelligence Systems Simulator (IISYS), used to perform analysis for the
National Reconnaissance Office.  The NRO is the U.S. Government's executive
agency for space-based reconnaissance; Science Applications International
Corporation is an employee-owned professional-services firm of about 43,000
people, with annual sales approaching $8 billion.

Chip Mayse

Dr. "Chip" (William C.) Mayse is in his second career, having previously
been an aerospace propulsion systems engineer.  Originally from Indiana and
educated (BSME, MSME) at Purdue, he served in the Air Force; studied systems
management (MS) at the University of Southern California; theology (MA) at
Fuller Seminary (Pasadena, CA); and was a thermal-analysis engineer at
Rocket Research Company (now Aerojet-Redmond) before switching to CS.  Since
leaving UIUC (Ph.D. '92), he has worked in Northern Virginia, mainly on
high-performance visualization and systems analysis software.  This includes
PowerScene: an early terrain scene-generator; a large, fast graph
data-mining system for the Dept. of Justice; the FIA Architecture and
Scheduler Testbed (FAST): a high-fidelity satellite-constellation simulator
for Boeing; and currently, IISYS and COSMOS.  For its contributions to
Operation Deliberate Force and the Dayton Peace Conference, PowerScene
received a Technology Laurels Award (1995) from Aviation Week Magazine.
